# Governance Models

Since the inception of Bitcoin by Satoshi Nakamoto, the concept of _governance_ has interested actual and potential stakeholders. Who governs Bitcoin, who is accountable in the case of problems? These are a few of the many questions users have tried to answer before pouring money into a new digital currency system.

Actually, Nakamoto designed Bitcoin with the idea of leaving it working without any additional governance apart from the one embedded in the protocol. We do not even know who Nakamoto is because no one was intended to be the governor of the currency, depicting Bitcoin as a gift of a talented person to the human community.

The first attempts to introduce some form of governance were linked to adopting new features and overcoming protocol issues. Currently, a group of developers who volunteered to deal with the limits imposed by the original protocol maintains a reference implementation of Bitcoin. They declare to follow the consensus changes within the community rather than impose them. However, while leading the code distribution, they are in a prominent position to control opinions and deployments in the Bitcoin core system, as other influential players do. We can say that governance still resides in the protocol and the consensus mechanism, but with a sort of external lobbying. Meetings of relevant people (e.g., miners, developers, investors) can lead to agreements on protocol changes and eventually to fork.

Nevertheless, subsequent blockchain and DLT initiatives stayed at a distance from the original idea of a self-consistent currency framework, and faced governance issues, often with fragmentary, individual, and sometimes disordered approaches. Using blockchain technology in applications other than a cryptocurrency implied some redesign, introducing new concepts and tools. The transition from a gift of an anonymous donor to an open-source project automatically introduced some off-chain governance concepts, at least considering the authority to propose protocol changes.

### 1. On-Chain Governance

One aspect that blockchain enthusiasts embrace the most is the trustlessness of the systems. Before Bitcoin, any system was administered by an authority that users trusted for its correct functioning. Trustless systems overcome this limit by providing a protocol involving users through incentives to maintain integrity and functionalities. We can say that trustless systems do not eliminate trust. Instead, they require trust in the protocols that inherently incentives correct behaviors. This aspect strictly links to the consensus mechanism. In Bitcoin, it relies on the economic advantage to keep the system working as expected. In other experiences, more democratic approaches emerged.

The developers of EOS \[**15**] tried to introduce a voting system through delegated proof-of-stake (DPoS). Token holders vote to choose block producers, with the underlying idea of preventing actors from controlling multiple nodes. In a world of sincere voters, this would be a good approach. However, criticisms pointed out that corruption is possible, as is cartel forming. If a consistent number of tokens are controllable by a few actors, the voting role within the system integrity mechanisms is compromised, so does the trust in the system.

Tezos \[**16**] presents similar criticisms. By using a peculiar proof-of-stake, this platform adapts to the needs of stakeholders by issuing a voting process over an election cycle lasting a certain number of blocks and subdivided into four quarters. In each quarter, proposed amendments of the protocol are subject to a voting stage and, if passed, to promotion in the next quarter, until final adoption:

* initially, an approval voting is issued to accept proposed tarballs containing new protocols. Each proposal collects some preferences;
* stakeholders vote for the most preferred protocol again counting votes for, against, and abstained;
* if a certain quorum of votes is reached, including those explicitly abstained, with a minimum approval rate of 80%, the new protocol goes into the test chain. In each cycle, the system automatically updates the quorum to avoid lost coins;
* stakeholders vote again to adopt the tested protocol in the main chain. Furthermore, in this case, quorum and 80% of preferences are the minimums to pass.

The most pivotal point of this mechanism is the ability to completely change the underlying protocol of stakeholders’ preferences, exposing all the criticalities of direct democracy. As an extreme example, a misinformed majority could progressively bring the system to a catastrophic failure, even if democratically chosen.

An even more ambitious vision constitutes the building block of internet computer governance \[**17**]. Based on DFINITY \[**18**] mechanism, a Network Nervous System (NNS) governs the system through a liquid democracy \[**19**] paradigm. The fundamental element is called _neuron_ and consists of a stake deposited and time-locked that enables the user to vote on several proposal types, such as economics, policy, protocol, and client upgrades. As an incentive to vote responsibly, the stake gets locked for months following a request to dissolve the neuron. An innovative feature allows stakeholders to delegate votes on specific matters to proxies: by following influencers on social networks, a stakeholder can get acquainted with opinions about complicated matters and explicitly delegate votes to the ID of the trusted influencer. Unlike what happens in representative democracy, where a prefixed number of representatives confront and decide on the majority about discussed proposals, in this liquid democracy system, a charismatic figure can collect enough followers to freely propose and grant critical changes on essential thematics, such as protocol or economics.

The last tentative of on-chain governance that we present is Decred \[**20**]. This system uses a time-locked voting ticket purchasing to enable stakeholders to vote on governance issues and within the consensus mechanism. Through the _Politeia_ web platform, community members browse, discuss, and submit proposals about every aspect of project governance, including development funding. Every proposal is subject to an off-chain voting procedure that involves ticket purchasing by time-locking a number of coins. Even if the procedure does not get recorded on-chain, a timestamping mechanism ensures the immutability of the records.

Stakeholders can also vote on consensus mechanism changes on-chain, adopting a time-locking funds procedure to obtain voting tickets. A significant majority of actors involved in the consensus mechanism must first adopt a proposed change before submitting it to voting. If a proposal reaches a 75% threshold of approval during the voting period, it replaces the previous mechanism after a fixed number of blocks by issuing a hard fork.

A last similar voting mechanism is part of the consensus protocol, where five randomly chosen ticket holders vote to approve the proof-of-work block creation by the current mining winner. If a block gets three approvals, the block definitely goes in the chain. The involved ticket holders get 30% of the transaction fees as a reward.

In general, Decred, similar to other direct democracy systems, is subject to the issues mentioned above, which can lead to disastrous outcomes.

### 2. Off-Chain Governance

When endowing a blockchain project with time or money, an investor is concerned about governance. The underlying software protocol is just as important as the laws and regulations of a traditional business. Organizations investigating the adoption of blockchain in their asset management usually take governance factors into account and considering the high number of variables involved, the individuation of critical aspects is often challenging. In \[**21**], the authors provide an interesting framework to help identify the peculiarities of specific blockchain governance features. The analyzer can subdivide their interest range into three layers: off-chain community, off-chain development, on-chain protocol. For each of these layers, the authors isolate five factors, called _dimensions_, to help the analyzer make the right questions: roles, incentives, membership, communication, and decision-making. Interpreting as many aspects as possible for each factor can help the investor understand how a specific blockchain initiative fits their intentions.

As a case study, the authors present the application of their framework to the Ethereum blockchain. For example, the analysis of the off-chain development layer include:

* _Roles_: Contributors, Maintainers, Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) editors.
* _Incentives_: Contributors expect potential value increase of Ether from working voluntarily, as well as fun and social recognition. The Ethereum Foundation (EF) pays some maintainers.
* _Membership_: Everybody is free to contribute. There is no formal selection procedure for maintainers or EIP editors. Usually, the most recognized contributors are called to relevant positions by EF.
* _Communication_: Contributors communicate via GitHub comments, meet-ups, events, and scheduled calls. Core developers’ calls notes are published.
* _Decision Making_: Decisions happen during calls or through the EIP process.

Other than the above orienting frameworks, we must point out that off-chain governance uses a looser set of rules, procedures, and social conventions than a code-based system. Because of this less formal structure, it is more challenging to manage and monitor. As a result, users can more easily avoid those policies. On the other hand, off-chain governance has a high degree of malleability, allowing the system to respond swiftly and seamlessly to unanticipated events and rapidly adjust to changes in the environment. The vague definition of off-chain governance rules allows for the required flexibility to limit or broaden the reach of these rules on a case-by-case basis, while the rigidity of on-chain governance rules means that malevolent actors may use them to undermine the system or shape it to their benefit if there is a design fault.

In general, on-chain and off-chain governance may show complementary limits. Let us take chain rewrites as an example: in the case of The DAO, where a set of programming weaknesses led to a catastrophic transfer of 3.6 Million Ethers to a single account, the EF, with an off-chain ethical decision, created a hard fork moving that amount to a recovery address, and implicitly creating the Ethereum Classic blockchain where the on-chain code is law, and code vulnerabilities might be unethical but lead to valid transactions. To deal with such cases, Tezos and DFINITY introduced on-chain voting on rewrites to let the stakeholders revert malevolent transfers. It seems a promising approach to deal with situations, such as The DAO, but suffers in any case of the above-mentioned direct democracy risks. This case represents the limits of on-chain and off-chain governances well, which both tend to overcome national and international legislation by allowing individuals or communities to set impacting rules in grey areas.
