# Permissionless versus Permissioned Systems

A significant divide exists between the cryptocurrency realm and the world of regulated business. It stems from two alternative business models, gives rise to different and somewhat antithetical DLT requirements, and turns out in two opposite approaches to decentralization: permissionless versus permissioned systems. In a _permissionless_ system, virtually anyone can participate in managing the ledger: an individual, usually anonymously, only needs to get the right software and possibly be enrolled in the community. On the contrary, only a set of pre-authorized and well-identified parties can participate in building a _permissioned_ system; this set usually comprises representatives from companies and organizations that are in charge of managing the ledger and, conversely to in the permissionless case, it is somewhat limited in size, and stable over time.

From a technical perspective, the private/public classification only affects the access control policies for end-users, while the permissionless versus permissioned distinction has profound implications on system management.

In permissionless DLT-based systems, the system’s existence is voluntary and not predetermined: peers freely decide if and when to be involved in the ledger management. Because of this, participants receive adequate incentives; otherwise, the network would not survive. This critical point represents the strength of permissionless systems, as incentives encourage communities of participants to cooperate. Nevertheless, the prospect of easy incentives would lead users to misbehave and try multiplying their benefits. In particular, in a similar way to _Sybil attacks_ \[**12**] that can plague reputation systems, the same user could hide behind a multiplicity of anonymous identities to be able to grab a more significant number of benefits or to increase the probability of accessing benefits proportionally. Therefore, participation in the management of the ledger must occur at the price of not easily reproducible consumption of a resource and a specific cost, unlike standard digital data.

However, this comes at the price of an underperforming and highly inefficient system, whose energy demand by design grows exponentially with the increase in the number of _miners_, i.e., those who participate in the proof-of-work. In Bitcoin, a miner generates a new block in about 10 min, and a user can safely consider a transaction permanently registered on the ledger only after an hour. Consequently, according to CBECI \[**13**], the current estimate for the annual consumption of the global Bitcoin network is around 68 TWh; that is, more than Austria in the same period. On the other hand, digital transactions relying on a centralized authority for verification take an order of seconds to be confirmed, and they have a negligible cost when compared to Bitcoin. As of 22 July 2021, the estimated average Bitcoin electric power consumption per transaction exceeds one million Visa transactions \[**14**].

As shown in **Section 3.3**, following the studies of the last few years, we have several consensus protocols that offer various trade-offs between scalability, energy efficiency, performance, and the threat assumptions under which they offer an adequate level of reliability. In particular, thanks to the choice of a consensus protocol, it is possible to implement a certain level and type of decentralization according to the usage scenario, both in the permissioned and permissionless model. However, we must emphasize that a consensus algorithm could not be sufficient to implement the requirements of decentralization in a complete sense. First, there are blockchain networks whose functioning depends on data from off-chain sources: the way these systems receive and manage data can significantly affect decentralization, and it is helpful to discuss how in these systems we can preserve decentralization also thanks to cryptography, which is one of the subjects of **Section 4**. Moreover, at least according to techno-utopians who advocate for permissionless systems, decentralization should be inspired by the principles of freedom, pluralism, and balance of power. Therefore, to be fully decentralized, a network must adopt an adequate governance model: to what extent can a network be considered truly representative of all its participants if a few only decide its constitution and evolution? These aspects transcend the fields of cryptography and, more generally, those technological; however, they are crucial and often underestimated in the current literature. Therefore we will mention them in the following subsection.
