# The Quest for Decentralization and Its Realization through DLT

In addition to the financial speculations possible thanks to the cryptocurrency market, and regardless of the specific use cases, the success of DLT mainly lies in the demand for interoperable and reliable decentralization in internet services and architectures. _Decentralization_ is a property that characterizes some distributed systems. A _distributed system_ is a system whose components are on different networked computers, possibly in different geographic areas, which communicate and coordinate their actions in order to achieve a common goal. If some of these computers belong to different and independent administrative domains, so that they cannot be collectively managed through a unique organization but require the cooperation of multiple parties, then the distributed system is more appropriately called _decentralized_.

The adoption of a distributed system for implementing internet services has been a significant trend since the introduction of _microservice architectures_ around 2011, a variant of service-oriented architectures where applications are collections of loosely-coupled, fine-grained processes that communicate over a network using technology-agnostic protocols, such as HTTP \[**8**]. A growing number of big companies, smaller businesses, and startups have swapped monolithic applications for microservices architectures, which are deployed as distributed systems within a data center or at multiple remote sites, thanks also to virtualization and containerization techniques \[**9**]. In this context, Cloud computing is a diffuse approach to offering and consuming IT services since it achieves economies of scale by sharing computer system resources and their on-demand availability without direct active management by users. However, companies usually deploy microservices and cloud architectures in a very centric way when administering their components and managing their trust.

The demand for greater decentralization and balance of power among internet players originates from the needs of the base workforce and contributors. Firstly, developers, creators, and startup businesses must face a narrow space for innovation: fitting in the centralized offer from big players limits the operational freedom that characterizes innovative proposals. Even consortia of companies have limited functional space to propose innovative, collaborative products and services without relying on cloud services or centralized design frameworks. Some influential thinkers (e.g., techno-utopian Georges Gilder \[**10**]) believe that DLT enables decentralized networks and business models. It can subvert organizational, social, and economic imprinting stemming from the business practices of companies, such as Google and Facebook, allowing for greater pluralism, the balance of power, and respect for human nature, rights, and freedom. Indeed, a slice of public opinion believes that the oligarchy currently characterizing the provision of the most common digital information and entertainment services may undermine the rights and freedoms of individuals. A few IT companies have a pivotal role in managing and distributing virtually any information to billions of individuals. Some fear this excessive concentration of power could degenerate into a dystopian world where people are continually monitored and conditioned to make choices against their natural, instinctive will. Shoshana Zuboff coined the term surveillance capitalism to denote “an emergent logic of accumulation in the networked sphere” based on “unexpected and often illegible mechanisms of \[data] extraction, commodification, and control that effectively exile persons from their own behavior while producing new markets of behavioral prediction and modification” \[**11**]. The sum of these ideas found in the blockchain keyword the strength to affirm a new decentralization proposal.

Whether or not one agrees with these analyses and conclusions, we believe that other practical circumstances point to decentralization as a critical factor for many application scenarios:

· risks deriving from assuming a single point of failure/trust, as in the case of the “trusted third party” assumption;

· costs reduction, both in the financial field and more generally in the commercial one, thanks to the elimination of intermediaries and interoperability “by design”;

· need to coordinate safely and reliably complex distributed systems, which, by their nature, are better suited, in whole or in part, to peer-to-peer models.

In particular, decentralized-oriented technologies could support a killer feature in the context of a current primary trend in information processing, achieving a particular validated end after a pipeline of tasks performed by multiple and independent agents.

Cryptography, and more generally computer security, provides a series of concepts and tools to corroborate evidence for the authenticity of data stored or in transit and the identity of users and devices during their interactions. These are, for example, the concepts of message and entity authentication, as well as the related tools of message authentication codes, digital signatures, and challenge-response protocols. However, no existing single tool can encompass the notion of _process authenticity_, intuitively corresponding to the validity of all its steps and their proper binding. Now that many processes get implemented thanks to the cooperation of various and independent parties, relying on a single trusted party to guarantee the authenticity of these processes is, in our opinion, no more possible or suitable. Conversely, DL systems—with their tracking, linking, and tamper-proof features—represent a natural choice to enforce the above notion. However, our experiences in developing decentralized applications for different use cases show that reaching this goal is a task whose feasibility and difficulty strongly depend on the application scenario and the specific process considered.
