# Conclusions

Following the critical approach used in \[**58**] during the booming of DLT, in this work, we presented the most relevant and impacting concepts within the context of technologies sprouted from the affirmation of Bitcoin. Such concepts, sometimes already present in the past literature, now receive an injection of concrete applicability. Opportunities to make a profit or affirm new governance approaches have nurtured a plethora of initiatives that we tried to organize by concepts and impact in implementing the actual applications.

This paper represents our tentative to exhibit sometimes underexposed but still impactful new or consolidated aspects of DLT. It was born from our need to have a clearer view of tangled and often just-sketched proposals available in the literature or on the market during our involvement in applicative projects. We propose a digest of valuable concepts for beginners and experts looking for unexpected links among ideas in the DLT scene. In particular, we propose a reference architecture for DLT, offering an overview of concepts and tools introduced by this technology. In **Section 3.3** about consensus, we propose a classification of protocols following a historical path marking the progression of ideas that emerged with the evolution of DL systems. We propose the concept of process authenticity, which we believe will be more and more prominent in the following years, presenting a review of the most relevant tools and strategies. Furthermore, in the context of anchors, we introduced the ADExPR scheme to characterize the authentication of physical resources through alphanumeric data, which can facilitate the reader to discriminate from the qualities of digital data authentication.
