# DISCLAIMER

PLEASE READ THE ENTIRETY OF THIS "DISCLAIMER" SECTION CAREFULLY. NOTHING HEREIN CONSTITUTES LEGAL, FINANCIAL, BUSINESS OR TAX ADVICE AND YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVISOR(S) BEFORE ENGAGING IN ANY ACTIVITY IN CONNECTION HEREWITH. NEITHER ETHEREUM PUSH NOTIFICATION SERVICE FOUNDATION (THE **COMPANY**), ANY OF THE PROJECT TEAM MEMBERS (THE **MGN TEAM**) WHO HAVE WORKED ON THE EPNS PROTOCOL (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR PROJECT TO DEVELOP THE MGN PROTOCOL IN ANY WAY WHATSOEVER, ANY DISTRIBUTOR/VENDOR OF $PUSH TOKENS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ETHEREUM MANGOSTEEN NOTIFICATION SERVICE LIMITED (THE DISTRIBUTOR), NOR ANY SERVICE PROVIDER SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY KIND OF DIRECT OR INDIRECT DAMAGE OR LOSS WHATSOEVER WHICH YOU MAY SUFFER IN CONNECTION WITH ACCESSING THIS WHITEPAPER, THE WEBSITE AT HTTPS://MGNCOIN.XYZ/ (THE **WEBSITE**) OR ANY OTHER WEBSITES OR MATERIALS PUBLISHED BY THE COMPANY.

## Project purpose <a href="#project-purpose" id="project-purpose"></a>

All contributions will be applied towards the advancing, promoting the research, design and development of, and advocacy for the missing piece of web 3.0 infrastructure with the introduction of the decentralized notiﬁcation protocol. The Company, the Distributor and their respective affiliates would develop, manage and operate the MGN protocol. The Company is acting solely as an arms’ length third party in relation to the Mangosteen sale, and not in the capacity as a financial adviser or fiduciary of any person with regard to the sale of Mangosteen.

## Nature of the Whitepaper <a href="#nature-of-the-whitepaper" id="nature-of-the-whitepaper"></a>

The Whitepaper and the Website are intended for general informational purposes only and do not constitute a prospectus, an offer document, an offer of securities, a solicitation for investment, or any offer to sell any product, item or asset (whether digital or otherwise). The information herein may not be exhaustive and does not imply any element of a contractual relationship. There is no assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and no representation, warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to the accuracy or completeness of such information. Where the Whitepaper or the Website includes information that has been obtained from third party sources, the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates and/or the MGN team have not independently verified the accuracy or completion of such information. Further, you acknowledge that circumstances may change and that the Whitepaper or the Website may become outdated as a result; and neither the Company nor the Distributor is under any obligation to update or correct this document in connection therewith.

## **Token Documentation** <a href="#token-documentation" id="token-documentation"></a>

Nothing in the Whitepaper or the Website constitutes any offer by the Company, the Distributor or the MGN team to sell any Mangosteen (as defined herein) nor shall it or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision. Nothing contained in the Whitepaper or the Website is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or undertaking as to the future performance of the MGN protocol. The agreement between the Distributor (or any third party) and you, in relation to any sale, purchase, or other distribution or transfer of Mangosteen, is to be governed only by the separate terms and conditions of such agreement. The information set out in the Whitepaper and the Website is for community discussion only and is not legally binding. No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation to the acquisition of Mangosteen, and no virtual currency or other form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of the Whitepaper or the Website. The agreement for sale and purchase of Mangosteen and/or continued holding of Mangosteen shall be governed by a separate set of Terms and Conditions or Token Purchase Agreement (as the case may be) setting out the terms of such purchase and/or continued holding of Mangosteen (the Terms and Conditions), which shall be separately provided to you or made available on the Website. The Terms and Conditions Documentation must be read together with the Whitepaper. In the event of any inconsistencies between the Terms and Conditions and the Whitepaper or the Website, the Terms and Conditions shall prevail.

## **Deemed Representations and Warranties** <a href="#deemed-representations-and-warranties" id="deemed-representations-and-warranties"></a>

By accessing the Whitepaper or the Website (or any part thereof), you shall be deemed to represent and warrant to the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and the MGN team as follows:

* In any decision to purchase any Mangosteen, you have shall not rely on any statement set out in the Whitepaper or the Website;
* You will and shall at your own expense ensure compliance with all laws, regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to you (as the case may be);
* You acknowledge, understand and agree that Mangosteen may have no value, there is no guarantee or representation of value or liquidity for Mangosteen, and Mangosteen is not an investment product including for any speculative investment;
* None of the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates, and/or the MGN team members shall be responsible for or liable for the value of Mangosteen, the transferability and/or liquidity of Mangosteen and/or the availability of any market for Mangosteen through third parties or otherwise; and
* You acknowledge, understand and agree that you are not eligible to purchase any Mangosteen if you are a citizen, national, resident (tax or otherwise), domiciliary and/or green card holder of a geographic area or country (i) where it is likely that the sale of Mangosteen would be construed as the sale of a security (howsoever named), financial service or investment product and/or (ii) where participation in token sales is prohibited by applicable law, decree, regulation, treaty, or administrative act (including without limitation the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand, People's Republic of China (but not including the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau, and the territory of Taiwan), Thailand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam); and to this effect you agree to provide all such identity verification document when requested in order for the relevant checks to be carried out.

The Company, the Distributor and the MGN team do not and do not purport to make, and hereby disclaims, all representations, warranties or undertaking to any entity or person (including without limitation warranties as to the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or reliability of the contents of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published by the Company or the Distributor). To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company, the Distributor, their respective affiliates and service providers shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including, without limitation, any liability arising from default or negligence on the part of any of them, or any loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use or data) arising from the use of the Whitepaper or the Website, or any other materials published, or its contents (including without limitation any errors or omissions) or otherwise arising in connection with the same. Prospective purchasers of Mangosteen should carefully consider and evaluate all risks and uncertainties (including financial and legal risks and uncertainties) associated with the Mangosteen token sale, the Company, the Distributor and the MGN team.

## Informational purposes only <a href="#informational-purposes-only" id="informational-purposes-only"></a>

The information set out herein is only conceptual, and describes the future development goals for the MGN protocol to be developed. In particular, the project roadmap in the Whitepaper is being shared in order to outline some of the plans of the MGN team, and is provided solely for **INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES** and does not constitute any binding commitment. Please do not rely on this information in making purchasing decisions because ultimately, the development, release, and timing of any products, features or functionality remains at the sole discretion of the Company, the Distributor or their respective affiliates, and is subject to change. Further, the Whitepaper or the Website may be amended or replaced from time to time. There are no obligations to update the Whitepaper or the Website, or to provide recipients with access to any information beyond what is provided herein.

## Regulatory approval <a href="#regulatory-approval" id="regulatory-approval"></a>

No regulatory authority has examined or approved, whether formally or informally, of any of the information set out in the Whitepaper or the Website. No such action or assurance has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of the Whitepaper or the Website does not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with.

## Cautionary Note on forward-looking statements <a href="#cautionary-note-on-forward-looking-statements" id="cautionary-note-on-forward-looking-statements"></a>

All statements contained herein, statements made in press releases or in any place accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by the Company, the Distributor and/or the MGN team, may constitute forward-looking statements (including statements regarding intent, belief or current expectations with respect to market conditions, business strategy and plans, financial condition, specific provisions and risk management practices). You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements given that these statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual future results to be materially different from that described by such forward-looking statements, and no independent third party has reviewed the reasonableness of any such statements or assumptions. These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of the date indicated in the Whitepaper, and the Company, the Distributor as well as the MGN team expressly disclaim any responsibility (whether express or implied) to release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events after such date.

## References to companies and platforms <a href="#references-to-companies-and-platforms" id="references-to-companies-and-platforms"></a>

The use of any company and/or platform names or trademarks herein (save for those which relate to the Company, the Distributor or their respective affiliates) does not imply any affiliation with, or endorsement by, any third party. References in the Whitepaper or the Website to specific companies and platforms are for illustrative purposes only.

## English language <a href="#english-language" id="english-language"></a>

The Whitepaper and the Website may be translated into a language other than English for reference purpose only and in the event of conflict or ambiguity between the English language version and translated versions of the Whitepaper or the Website, the English language versions shall prevail. You acknowledge that you have read and understood the English language version of the Whitepaper and the Website.

## No Distribution <a href="#no-distribution" id="no-distribution"></a>

No part of the Whitepaper or the Website is to be copied, reproduced, distributed or disseminated in any way without the prior written consent of the Company or the Distributor. By attending any presentation on this Whitepaper or by accepting any hard or soft copy of the Whitepaper, you agree to be bound by the foregoing limitations.
